today we are making Chinese hot and sour
soup with chicken the beauty of making
this yourself is that you can control
how hot or house our it is and how thick
it is by the ingredients that you add so
the first thing you want to do is
reconstitute some black fungus mushrooms
and this is what they look like when
they're dry and I probably have about 2
tablespoons it's just like a little
handful here and I'm going to pour some
boiling water over them just to cover
them and our next step is to shred up
the chicken and I just want to show you
how I do it I have two chicken breast
halves boneless here and I push down
with my hand and then I push the knife
through gently about a third of the way
down and you get a thin slice like that
and I'm going to do that again halfway
down and I should get three nice thin
slices and I feel you know want to cut
them thinner you can do another slice it
depends on the size of your chicken
breast and now the grain is going this
way so I'm just going to cut off little
shreds like this and you can do this as
thick or as thin as you like I like thin
shreds if you wanted to do a larger
piece you could do this and you get
really nice thin pieces of chicken
I just want to show you again I'm
holding my blade at about a 45 degree
angle and I'm pushing it away from me
that helps me get a thin slice you could
do this with fork too I prefer it with
the chicken but if you want to do the
poor if you could do the same thing now
I'm going to finish shredding this up
you need a sharp knife and then when
you're putting your knife through the
breast to this way just be very careful
not to slice your hand you'll kind of
feel where the knife is where the
chicken isn't for your hand is I hold
and you also want a sharp knife that
hose so I'm going to put this in the
bowl here and i have three tablespoons
of soy sauce now going to mix this in
and see if it's enough to cover it and
if you have more chicken if you have
larger chicken breasts you might want a
little bit more soy sauce but it looks
like it's covering it here so we're good
and now I'm going to sprinkle and even
an equal amount of phila cornstarch i
have three tablespoons of cornstarch and
i'm just going to mix that in with my
hand and I'm going to drizzle a little
bit of toasted sesame oil on here as
well it's probably a teaspoon
okay our chickens ready so I'm going to
let it marinate while I chop up the rest
of the ingredients so I've drained my
mushrooms and their nights and
reconstituted now and i'm just going to
take a few and I stack them up one on
top of the other and you just cut them
into little strips as soon as you can
get them or if you want them thicker you
can cut them thicker but I like to cut
them into little strips like that and
I'm going to do it with the rest of them
I have a 12-ounce block of extra firm
tofu here you can use a softer tofu if
you prefer and i don't think i'm going
to use the whole thing i'm just going to
start chopping and i'll see you when to
stop it's up to you how much tofu you
like I'm going to cut half of it first
so I cut it into these slices here I'll
stack them up and then I'm just going to
chop down and I'm going to get these
little strips I think I'll do it mmm now
I'll leave them like this I don't want
them to fall apart I have an 8 ounce can
of sliced bamboo shoots that I've
drained and I'm going to slice them into
little strips like this I'm going to do
it for all of them i'm going to use up
the whole can because i don't really
have a use for the bamboo shoots other
than in this recipe but if you want to
use less it to you you can use less so I
brought up about eight or nine cups of
chicken stock to a boil and I'm going to
add the chicken the mushrooms the bamboo
shoots and the tofu and I'm going to
cook them for a few minutes until the
chicken is cooked through so the
chickens cook through it doesn't take
long because it's shredded very thin I'm
going to add a quarter cup of soy sauce
I'm using low-sodium you can use full
sodium and I have a quarter cup of rice
vinegar I have two teaspoons of salt and
three teaspoons of sugar but you want to
taste your stock see how salty it is and
how small do you want it you might not
want to add any salt because the sodium
from the soy sauce is probably funny for
most people and now I'm going to add
some white pepper and I'm going to do
that to taste it's very hot so just be
careful but you know you can just add a
little bit taste and see if it's hot
enough for you and then I'll show you
the next step so I added about a
teaspoon of white pepper to mine it's
pretty spicy so you really just have to
taste it and see how much is enough for
you just go slow and now I have two
tablespoons of cornstarch that I diluted
in a half a cup of cold water and I'm
going to have this to the soup and it
should thicken it up if it's not thick
enough for you you can add a little bit
more corn starch I'm going to let it
cook for a while and I'll check if it's
thick enough for me so I ended up adding
another tablespoon of cornstarch that I
diluted with a tiny bit of cold water it
thickens it it makes it almost that
gelatinous consistency that you're used
to getting at the chinese restaurants
but i don't like it to goopy and it also
depends on how much corn starch you
ended up putting on your chicken how
thick your soup is going to get and now
i'm going to add some beaten eggs which
will also thicken it a little bit so i
have two eggs that I gently beat with a
fork and i'll show you how to add them
in second now i skimmed a little bit of
the foam off of the top of the soup and
i'm going to reduce the flame a little
bit but I want it boiling that card
slow it down okay and I'm just going to
gently add the egg and as I do it slowly
I just gently stir open i'm using a fork
you can use chopsticks or whatever you
want you just want to gently stir it and
you'll get these little ribbons of egg
you don't want to do it too vigorously
because then you'll just incorporate the
egg completely into the soup so just do
it slowly and slowly stir and you get
these it drops and now I'm going to
maybe let it stand for I don't know 20
seconds just 2 legs cook through now
maybe even less i think i might turn it
off in a few seconds and when i do that
i'm going to drizzle some toasted sesame
oil until it to taste depends how much
you like sesame oil bit i think it makes
it super Lee good so I'm going to put in
some sesame oil and i'll show you the
next step okay so i've turned it off and
I'd result about 2 tablespoons of sesame
oil and now I'm just going to add a
whole bunch of scallions that I chopped
up and I saved a little bit for
garnishing the bowl when I serve it I'm
going to stir it in and it's ready to
serve so here is our finished product
our hot and sour soup with chicken I
hope you enjoy